(upbeat music)
All right, in the next two videos we are
going to refactor our gallery and our slider exercises
that we did earlier to take advantage of the prototype.
So let's open up gallery and open up gallery.js.
I want you just to take a copy of that and
save it as gallery-prototype.
And then go into your index.html of your gallery
and change it to gallery-prototype.
Now there's a couple things that need to happen here.
First of all, let's just scroll all the way to the
bottom here and see that we have gallery1 and gallery2.
If I were to console.log gallery1 and gallery2,
let's just see what we're working with here.
We get undefined and undefined.
Now why is that?
Well, because this function doesn't actually return
anything from it, but if we change it to use a new
keyword, it'll automatically return an instance
of that gallery.
You can see there's nothing in it,
and there's nothing on the prototype of that.
So there's not much to do here,
but we're gonna see as we start adding things
to the prototype and to the instance,
we'll see them populate there.
So first thing I'm gonna do is go all the way
to the top here,
and we'll sorta go line by line.
This checking of the gallery is totally fine.
The only thing that we need to do now is to
save reference to the gallery div that was passed in
because we're going to need it in our prototype
methods in just a second.
So what we can do is say this.gallery is equal to
the gallery that was passed in.
Now when I refresh it,
and, oh it took my console logs out.
Let me keep that.
You see we have both of our galleries
and you can see that these are instance properties
because they're different in each one.
Okay now we need to go through all of these
variables that we created right here.
We just created them as variables inside of this
closure, but because we're gonna be moving
all of these open, close, handleClickOutside,
all of these methods are gonna be moved to the
prototype, they no longer will have access to
this closure.
Meaning that we need to surface these variables on
our instance somehow.
And the way that you can surface a variable
on an instance is simply saying this dot the name.
So we're gonna change all of these variables
in everywhere we've used them to this.images,
this.modal.
Now the easiest way I've found to do that is,
instead of trying to hunt them down,
just right click and we wanna say Rename Symbol,
and we wanna change it to this.images.
And then you remove the const because we're no longer
declaring a variable.
We're simply setting a property on the gallery instance.
So I give that a save.
And just go through the rest of them.
Rename, this dot, remove the const.
Rename.
Rename the symbol.
This dot, remove the const.
Right click, Rename.
We don't need the currentImage any longer
and that's because where ever we set the currentImage...
Where is currentImage?
Here we go, right here.
We will simply say this.currentImage equals element.
We're going to be able to put it on the instance.
So that's what we do there.
So delete the let currentImage.
Now if I refresh this, you'll see that each of our instances
now have these properties inside of them.
We've got our buttons, we've got our images,
and we have our gallery.
Then the rest of these functions are going to be shared
amongst each of the galleries by moving them
to the prototype.
So I'm gonna just select all of them
and move them out.
So openModal, closeModal, handleClickOutside,
handleKeyUp, showNextImage, showPrevImage, showImage,
and that's it.
You keep you event listeners in there.
We'll go over those in just a second.
So I'm gonna cut them outta here.
And I'm gonna go below where we've defined our gallery.
So this is our function gallery, open,
close, and then we'll go right below that
and paste them in.
Now what we need to do is,
we need to change each one of these functions
to now be on the prototype of the gallery.
So we're gonna remove the word function.
We'll say capital G, Gallery.prototype.openModal
is equal to a function,
and we give that a save and a refresh.
And now you'll see in your prototype of the gallery,
we now have access to this openModal.
Nothing will work yet 'cause it's all broken,
but we'll go through these one by one
and fix them all.
So now I won't make you do them all like this.
What I like to say is,
hold down click, hold down Command,
and then just put a cursor in front of every
single one of these.
And then I'm gonna hit Command + Shift + Left Arrow.
I think that's Control + Shift + Left Arrow on Windows.
And we'll say
capital G, Gallery.prototype.handleClickOutside,
now I'm gonna hit my Alt key and hit my Right Arrow
to jump to the end of the function,
and we'll set that to be equal to function.
There we go.
So now I've just renamed all of my functions to
be Gallery.prototype the name of the function
and that is equal to a function there.
Now it won't even load.
And that's okay because we get these errors
handleClickOutside is not defined.
If we go to line 29,
you're gonna see all of these.
Any time we reference one of our functions,
it now needs to be changed to
this.showImage.
And this is where ESLint becomes really helpful.
If I click on ESLint in the bottom here,
go to my problems,
you can see these are all of my problems.
They are not defined.
So I can just go one by one
and change them out,
this dot,
handleClickOutside,
this dot.
So anywhere you had a function from before,
it now needs to be changed to this dot.
So I'll just zoom out.
I'll just zoom through this really quickly.
You can do it as well.
♪ I don't wanna wait for our lives to be over ♪
♪ Will it be yes or will it be ♪
All right, so I went through all of my
ESLint problems.
It's still telling me I've got lots of spelling mistakes,
but that's totally fine.
We'll close that up.
Now that I have converted everything to a prototype,
all of my variables and all of my methods
are now referenceable by this dot their old name.
Let's go through the app and try
and sort of go through any issues that we now have.
So open up the gallery.
There it is.
If I click on one of these,
that seems to work just fine.
I'm going to click the buttons.
That is our first error.
Let's see what else.
We'll make a little laundry list here.
So clicking next/prev buttons is broke.
Now if I click outside, that's broken.
And if I hit Escape, that is also broken.
And I believe that is all the problems that we have
right now.
So let's go through those.
Clicking next/prev buttons is broken.
So open it up,
click Next.
The error says,
cannot read property nextElementSibling of undefined
on line 69.
Okay, let's do it.
69...
Cannot read property, nextElementSibling of undefined.
So what that's telling me is that
this.currentImage is undefined.
So my question is,
what is this?
Let's try.
Go here,
console.log this.
So now when I open it up,
this as far as we know,
this should always equal the instance of the gallery, right?
Button?
Why is this equal to a button?
Okay, let's figure out where showNextImage being
called from.
Not from, this is, this is for we use our keyboard.
We're clicking right now.
So let's find out where else.
There we go, showNextImage is being used right here.
To remove the event listener,
oh also, it's being used to,
here we go addEventListener.
So what's happening here is that
we are listening for a click
and then when that click happens,
the showNextImage function is running.
But what did I tell you about passing call backs
to addEventListener and the keyword this?
Whenever you pass a call back to an EventListener,
this keyword will be equal to the thing that
is to the left of the dot.
So does it make sense that the next button
is to the left?
And when we log this it's equal to it?
It should, somewhat.
(laughs)
The question is how do we fix that.
Because that's just how functions work.
Well, there's a couple ways you can sorta get around it.
I'll show you a couple ways.
First way, and this is pretty popular
in React world.
And that is just to pass an arrow function instead.
And what that will do is,
instead of passing the function directly,
we pass it a new function that will in turn
call showNextImage for us.
And watch what happens now.
Here I go.
Now that works.
But let me show you the problem with that.
And for that to work,
we also need to get our Escape working.
So let's do this.
handleKeyUp, let's do the same thing
except in this case handleKeyUp needs the event.
So we just have to hot potato the event from that function
to another.
Now let me show you the problem.
You open it up,
and I hit my Escape key.
And I open it up again,
hit my Escape key.
Open it up again,
and now when I click right,
whoa.
Okay, it's going from hoodie
to backpack.
It skipped two?
I'll close it down.
Let's go back to hoodie.
Now we'll go to backpack again.
Suitcase?
Open it again.
Jacket?
Every time I close it,
it's going one further.
Is it gonna go to shoes this time?
Oh my gosh, it is.
You see what's happening
is that,
let me go back to the showNextImage function here.
And let's just say console.log showing next image.
Clear this out, open it up.
Close it down, open it up.
Close it down, and I'll clear it.
And clear it one more time.
Now I'm gonna hit it.
Showing next image,
showing next image,
showing next image.
See what's happening here is that
every time that we open it up,
we're binding another,
we're listening for another click of it right here.
And the way we fixed that before is that we just
removed the event listener when we closed the modal.
And that way we added and removed it
every time we opened and closed it.
But what happens when you do this
is that you're creating another function
and in order to remove an event listener,
you have to have reference to that function.
So that's kind of annoying.
So the other way that we can sort of fix that
is by binding it to this
when we have access to this.
And that is inside of the gallery.
So it'll get a little bit complicated.
Don't sweat it if it doesn't make sense the first time.
This honestly took me a couple years to get it.
So stay with me, keep going through the exercises,
and this will make sense after,
I don't know, maybe the seventh time, eighth time
that you build something this way.
But this is a pretty common thing that happens
in React world.
And what we'll do is right here we'll say
bind our methods to the instance when we need them.
So we'll say this dot...
What was the ones that we were having trouble with?
showNextImage, handleKeyUp, and showPreviousImage.
So this.showNextImage is equal to
this.showNextImage.bind(this).
So what happened there?
Well, what we're doing is we're creating an instance
property of the same prototype function
but bound with this.
So what does this bind do?
Bind allows us to explicitly supply what this
will be equal to.
And because in our constructor this is equal to
the instance, we are creating a new function
that has this bound to it.
Then what that allows us to do
is where we go find or showNextImage,
we can now just simply pass showNextImage
without having to worry about any of that.
Click it.
Next, next, next.
It's working just fine.
Our previous isn't gonna work 'cause we haven't done it
there just yet.
Now the benefit of doing that over,
sometimes you might see people do this as well,
.bind(this).
And they'll do it right at the time,
is that we, by binding it here,
we lose reference to the new function
that was created.
And that stops us from being able to remove
that event listener in the future.
So you always need to hold onto your functions
when you create them
so that you can remove them in the future.
And by doing this,
we've lost it.
So we are saving reference to it
inside of our constructor.
So let's go ahead and duplicate that
and make it the showPrevImage.
So does that work?
Back, back, back works.
Okay.
Does my Escape key work?
Escape key is working.
Oh, but that's because we're passing
the E,
so we don't wanna do that.
Let's change that back to handleKeyUp.
You don't have to pass that
because we are removing it here, right?
So we need to go back up here
and say this.handleKeyUp is equal to this.handleKeyUp.
And I believe the last one is
the click outside.
Yeah, that's still the same problem as well.
So if we do this.handleClickOutside is equal to bind.
This is why a lot of people don't like this
method of doing it.
People much prefer just having a bunch of functions
and that is totally fine.
'Cause this is a bit of a pain having to figure
out what does this equal in each context
and it changes depending on what the function is
and it's not as explicit as just having a bunch
of functions are.
And if you feel that way,
I often feel that way myself,
then it may mean that this whole prototype
way of coding is not for you.
And there's certainly lots of people who think that way.
So I teach you all the ways
just because this is probably something
that will come up in an interview.
And there are lots of programmers who think
this is the best way to structure your apps.
Click it, there we go.
Now everything is working beautifully.
So we have our gallery.
We've got our instance properties.
We have our binding of our methods that need to have
access to this.
Then we have our images.
The reason why we don't remove the event listeners
is 'cause this only happens once
on page load when the gallery is created.
And then we have all of our prototypal methods
down below.
All right, so that is the gallery.
Maybe try and do the slider one yourself.
If not, I'll meet you in the next video.
We'll learn how to do that with prototypes.
And then we'll learn a little bit about classes
and do one final refactor for this app.